Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) — Operational Guidelines
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India

1. OBJECTIVE
Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) was launched on 1st May 2016 with the objective to provide clean cooking fuel — LPG — to rural and deprived households which were otherwise using traditional cooking fuels such as firewood, coal, cow-dung cakes etc. Use of traditional cooking fuels had detrimental impacts on the health of rural women as well as on the environment.

2. ELIGIBILITY
2.1 Applicant must be an adult woman (18 years or above).
2.2 No LPG connection should exist against any member of the household in any Oil Marketing Company.
2.3 The applicant must belong to one of the following categories:
  (a) SC/ST household
  (b) Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) beneficiary
  (c) Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) household
  (d) Forest dweller
  (e) Most Backward Classes
  (f) Tea & Ex-Tea Garden Tribes
  (g) Residents of Islands and River Islands
  (h) Any low-income family as per the 14-point declaration on the KYC form

3. BENEFITS
3.1 A deposit-free LPG connection (cash assistance of Rs. 1,600 per connection).
3.2 First refill and stove (both) are also provided free of cost to all PMUY beneficiaries.
3.3 Targeted subsidy of Rs. 300 per cylinder (for up to 12 cylinders/year of 14.2 kg) is credited directly to the bank account of the beneficiary.

4. APPLICATION PROCESS
4.1 Apply at the nearest LPG distributor of any Oil Marketing Company (Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum).
4.2 Online application available at pmuy.gov.in.
4.3 Required documents: Aadhaar of woman applicant, bank account passbook, ration card or other proof of household category, 14-point self-declaration.
4.4 The application is processed by the LPG distributor in coordination with the Oil Marketing Company.
4.5 No application fee or processing charge is collected from beneficiaries. The connection is FREE — beware of intermediaries demanding payment.

5. AVAILING REFILL SUBSIDY
The subsidy amount of Rs. 300 per cylinder is credited directly to the bank account of the consumer through the PAHAL Direct Benefit Transfer scheme on each refill.
